#+TITLE: Building a dynamic, executable and discoverable network of interlinked software and data

This project aims at developing infrastructure to support some major
contemporary challenges of modern data-driven science, i.e. the
reliance on open digital information infrastructure using automation
and standardisation as primary force to enable broader and more open
scientific dissemination, impact and creativity.

Modern science relies on ever increasing quantities of data (some have
coined it the data deluge) and on trustworthy and sustainable software
to analyse and interpret them. Each of these pillars of modern
scientific activities are generally developed and maintained
independently. On one hand, a typical data pipeline starts with a data
producer submitting these annotated data to an official repository
that, after some basic curation, passively serves it to the wider
community. This flow is unidirectional and restricted to published (or
soon to be published) data and, once part of the official repository,
becomes inert (updates and further annotations are very rare) and,
most often, dormant. On the other hand, the exposure of a research
software is often limited by the application (or applicability) to a
limited set of known of data sets, and hence limited to the original
team or sub-community. Surprisingly, while each data/software
information and development streams can't be conceived in isolation,
and their true potential emerges from their interoperation, little
effort exist to facilitate streamlined interactions and
discoverability. The ideal infrastructure would enable transparent
integration of different data source (local or remote, public or
private), data sets (transparent to file formats) through data APIs
and software architectures (local or remote) through software
APIs/pipelines. Other than re-use of data and software and potential
for automation, the major potential is discoverability of data and
software leading to new applications and use cases (from data and
software perspectives) and contributing these back as novel, publicly
available and data/software annotation and use cases.


#+CAPTION: Infrastucture overview
[[./Figures/overview_20150529_150535.jpg]]

Such a platform should enable 

- data and software annotation and interoperation;
- data and software software discoverability;
- data and software reusability;
- enhanced data and software disseminsation;
- emergence of novel data and software use cases;

for all members of the scientific community and public, irrespective
of techinical IT skills, knowledge of data formats and data generation
infrastucture, and data/software provenance. 


The domain of high-throughput biology, and more specifically
proteomics will be used as a use case to develope and illustrate the
proposed infrastructure.


** More notes

Example illustrating the difficulty of cross talking between software
and data domains: existence of multiple file formats, annotation and
data provenance, which considerably hinder a systematic exploitation
of data for any or multiple software for expert users (i.e. requires
then to design infrastruture 

The aim of this project is to design and develop an infrastructure
that would serve the scientist communities with data- and
software-as-a-service infrastructures that support transparent cross
talk between data and software.



Building up from 'bare-bone' open source software (some of which I
have developed over the years and maintain) up to transparent on-line
infrastructure, that would be adequate for collaborations with
industry (I have some contacts) and/or commercialisation.


In a nutshell (and open to discission), I would like to expand the
existing infrastructure for the analysis of high-throughput biology
data (using proteomics and integration of proteomics and genomics as a
use case)


What about taverna? galaxi? AnnotationHub? We want to make use of
this. 


** References

- [[https://peerj.com/articles/cs-1/][Achieving human and machine accessibility of cited data in scholarly publications]]
- [[http://blogs.lse.ac.uk/impactofsocialsciences/2015/05/28/elseviers-non-sharing-policy-barbour/][Elsevier's new sharing policy is really a reversal of the rights of authors]]



