
## Intent to Submit + host department

Host departments: Prof. David Jones, Computer Science and Dr. James
Hetherington, RITS. Also support from Prof. Christine Orengo,
Structural and Molecular Biology Department.

## 2 side CV

## Outline of the aims and activities of the fellowship

There are a wide range of excellent outputs related to RSE at large:
software, algorithms and data sets of great scientific value. These
are however too often produced, developed and exploited in isolation,
limiting their dissemination and full potential across
disciplines. The aim of the project is to enable individual
experimental, computational scientists and RSEs to broaden up the
relevance of their research outputs to different fields of
applications. The project centres around the following activities: (1)
data collection of relevant resources across scientific disciplines;
(2) data mining and modelling to effectively inform users of most
relevant interlinked data, software and publication records; (3)
efforts in standardisation and automation, to facilitate more rigorous
and systematic meta-analysis; and (4) the project will foster
scientific and RSE community involvement to assure that most relevant
resources and results are served for the communities.

## Justification of the choice of host department and fit to UCL's wider initiatives in RSE

The UCL is at the forefront of research software engineering,
recognising the unique set of skills and experience stemming from
computational sciences and software engineer. The Research IT Services
and the Department of Computer Science constitute the ideal
environment for such as applied projects, that aims at making best use
of existing data sources and infrastructure skills to produce a usable
and useful service to the global RSE and research communities. UCL's
efforts in new technologies and analytics as applied to scholarly
content, data and software in the frame of the Big Data Institute are
particularly relevant too. This combination of departments at the UCL
is the ideal environment for my professional development to reinforce
my experience is research software engineering and improve my skills
in large scale infrastructure serving the science community.

## Importance of fellowship in terms of science and engineering research enabled, including contributions to EPSRC's priorities

The EPSRC recognises the importance of software and data sets as
primary research outputs in their own rights. It has invested millions
of pounds per year in software over the last 5 years to promote RSE
activities. The project offers a way to maximise these investment by
promoting discoverability, re-use and new application of existing
software. 

In particular, the project enables and promotes collaboration by
identifying relevant and reusable data and software, both for
software/data users and producers, in particular with respect to more
effective dissemination and collaboration across communities. Software
and data re-use, and in particular across disciplines, is a major
hallmark of success and impact. The action of the project lies at the
interface of experimental and computational research outputs and can
support researchers to cross these fields and thus promote
opportunities and innovation in software provision and maximise the
academic and economic impact of RSE outputs. By means of software
re-use promotion and discovery, the project will promote open
dissemination of sustainable and trustworthy software and facilitate
the development of communities of users and developers across
disciplines.

